=head1 NAME

smime-mta.conf - smime-mta configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

/etc/smime-mta/smime-mta.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

smime-mta(1) reads configuration data from /etc/smime-mta/smime-mta.conf.  The file contains keyword-argument pairs, one per line.  Lines starting with '#' and empty lines are interpreted as comments.  Arguments may optionally be enclosed in double quotes (") in order to represent arguments containing spaces.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 6

=item B<cache_dir> [path]

Path to the directory where cached copies of the certificates will be
stored.

default: ~/.smime-mta

=item B<mta> [path]

Path to the MTA binary that smime-mta(1) will use to send the message.
Typically smime-mta(1) will be used as a wrapper for this MTA.  Use
'stdout' to send the encrypted message to STDOUT instead of the MTA.

=item B<debug> [true|false]

Toggle debugging output

default: false

=item B<use_syslog> [true|false]

Toggle the sending of logging output to syslog.  Only informational output as
well as error and debug messages will be sent to syslog.  TThe message itself
will not be sent to syslog.

default: true

=item B<expiry_offset> [integer]

The offset, in seconds, to use when determining if a certificate should be
considered as expired.  For example; using the value 3600 will declare any
certificate that will expire within 1 hour (3600 seconds) from now.  This is
useful if the desire is to only encrypt with certificates that have a lifespan
long enough for the message to be read.  However, this can also leave a
message with no possible certificate for encryption.

default: 0

=item B<always_encrypt_to> [address|uid]

Addresses or usernames to encrypt the messages to.  This option may be
specified multiple times.

=item B<never_encrypt_to> [address|uid]

Exclude addresses or usernames from encryption and certificate lookup.  This
option may be specified multiple times.

=item B<ldap_uri> [uri]

The URI for connecting to the LDAP server that holds the certificates.

Commenting out ldap_uri or setting it to blank will cause LDAP certificate
searches to be skipped.

=item B<ldap_base_dn> [dn]

The base DN for searching the LDAP server for certificates.

=item B<ldap_timeout> [integer]

Timeout, in seconds, for connecting to the LDAP server.

default: 10

=item B<ldap_verify> [none|optional|require]

How to verify the LDAP server's certificate.

=over 6

=item B<none>

The server may provide a certificate but it will not be checked - this may
mean you are be connected to the wrong server.

=item B<optional>

Verify only when the server offers a certificate.

=item B<require>

The server must provide a certificate, and it must be valid.

=back

If you set verify to optional or require, you must also set either cafile or
capath. The most secure option is require.

default: none

=item B<ldap_capath> [path]

=item B<ldap_cafile> [filename]

When verifying the server's certificate, either set capath to the pathname of
the directory containing CA certificates, or set cafile to the filename
containing the certificate of the CA who signed the server's certificate.
These certificates must all be in PEM format.
              
The directory in 'capath' must contain certificates named using the hash value
of the certificates'.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Bennett Samowich <bennett@foolean.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

smime-mta(1)
